This is the Netzah Yehuda Battalion,
an Israeli army unit
showcasing their military might.
In a promotional training video
unavailable for.
But the unit has a decades long history
of abusing Palestinians
in the West Bank,
and the Americans know it
. A State Department investigation found they had committed
gross human rights violations,
but this finding never led to U.S.
sanctions.
Even media reports
of possible sanctions outraged Israel in.
Bits on Angela Bassett.
The whole Qatar.
So despite their track record,
the Natalie
Yehuda Battalion is still receiving
American arms
and is now operating in Gaza.
We tracked down
one former soldier from the unit.
In a rare interview,
he remembers
fellow soldiers
bragging about their excessive
violence towards Palestinians.
We've hidden his identity
and voice as he fears reprisal.
There were some kids
throwing rocks in a small village
that normally isn't a big deal,
but the company commander decided,
let's throw them a party.
So they took the emergency response team
and 20 soldiers.
They walked door to door,
throwing flashbangs and gas grenades
into people's homes
as a punishment
for the kids throwing rocks.
Collective punishment?
Yes. Collective punishment.
The commander said it was fantastic
to see the look on their faces.
When we look at those abuses
that have happened
in that state over the years.
There's a chain of command here. Yeah.
What responsibility
does the battalion commander?
The person at the very top.
What responsibility
does that commander have
for what happened?
I think he has all the responsibility.
If these commanders
don't put their foot down
and punish them for their behavior,
then they are in fact,
condoning their behavior.
He told us his years in the battalion
changed his outlook completely.
He now feels compelled to speak out
about the battalion's
mistreatment of Palestinians.
The officers he's talking about
follow a chain of command.
What happens under their watch
is their responsibility.
But despite this,
we found some of these same commanders
who were in charge
when allegations of human
rights abuses emerged
have been promoted again and again
into senior roles in the IDF,
using facial recognition technology.
CNN found this commander,
Lieutenant Colonel Amitai Okasha,
now in Gaza, in a senior role
running ground operations. Be
back in 2019.
He ran the Netzer Yehuda battalion Way
and was in charge
when these soldiers seen him
laughing as they beat and humiliate.
A Palestinian man and his son
both arrested for assisting the killer
of two fellow Netanya Yehuda soldiers.
That journey to the police station
left the father with three broken ribs.
Five were later
jailed for their actions and
their commander,
Okasha told investigators.
While he condemned the violence,
he said deploying
the soldiers was necessary
to make the killer pay
and to create a sense of success
among the fighters.
He remained as commander
and has been promoted since.
But Akashi is not the only Netanyahu.
The commander with a dark past
coming in for them.
I'm going to see that it's normal.
I'm going to die.
This is Lieutenant Colonel
Marty Sheva
rousing troops before deployment.
But just over a year later,
soldiers under his command
left for dead
this elderly Palestinian-American man.
Oh, more sad here.
Lying on the ground,
bound and blindfolded
as a soldier watches.
On his death,
the IDF admitted a moral failure.
But no soldier
faced charges for his death,
and their commander
faced only a reprimand.
Yet still he was later promoted.
Now training Israeli ground
troops, preparing to enter Gaza,
even featuring in high profile
interviews with American media
boasting of his soldiers
enthusiasm for war, the major concern for
most of the soldiers
is we're going to have to stop.
We asked the man
previously in charge
of investigating
the Netanyahu does abuses
for the US government,
what he made of these promotions
that is very bad news.
that shows, first of all, that Israel,
that the government of Israel
has no intention
of holding the Netanyahu
to battalion accountable.
He says the US
is not following their own laws
by sending them weapons.
Of course,
we treat Israel differently,
and that really undermines,
our human rights advocacy
and the rest of the world.
The law that Congress passed and
our taxpayer
funded assistance
is going to Israeli units
that have committed gross
violations of Human Rights Watch
this assistance
despite the growing evidence of abuse.
CNN exclusively obtained
the names of three more Israeli
units found by U.S.
officials to have committed
gross human
rights violations prior to October 7th.
All are still operating,
including the Yemen
seen here in Gaza
in an operation
that rescued four Israeli hostages
but left nearly 300
Palestinian dead,
according to local health authorities.
The Israeli
military dispute
that the toll was so high,
such as the death
and destruction, mounts.
It is U.S.
weaponry supporting these units,
begging the question
for how much longer will Israel's
greatest ally choose to turn a blind eye?
Katie Pugliese, CNN, London.